###What is Hypertext? Hypertext is text which contains links to other texts.

#### What Is Clean Code?

What is Hypermedia? Hypermedia is a term used for hypertext which is not constrained to be text, it can include graphics, video and sound, for example.

What is a Protocols? Protocols are vendor specification which means private companies offer them on their software and operating systems. They are part of operations of a system that would implement on them.

Internet Protocols: TCP/IP Suit, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, FTP, UDP (User Datagram Protocol), Telnet, Gopher, PPTP (Point To Point Tunnelling Protocol), SCTP, RPC (Remote Procedure Calls in distributed systems), gRPC (gRPC remote procedure calls)

TCP/IP Suite: TCP/IP is connecting protocol. TCP is a communication protocol which is used for communicating over a network. It divides any messages into series of packages that are sent from source to destination and there is get assembled at the destination. IP is designed as addressing protocol. IP helps in routing the packets through different nodes in a network until it reaches the destination. TCP is used by HTTP, HTTPs, FTP, SMTP and Telnet. TCP doesn’t support Broadcasting. Transmission Layer.

HTTP: HTTP is a application layer protocol built upon the TCP. Designed for transferring a hypertext among two or more systems. HTTP is designed on client-server principles which allows a client system for establishing a connection with the server machine for making a request. The server acknowledges the request initiated by the client and response accordingly. Application Layer. Without Message encryption.

HTTPS: It is secure HTTP. Is designed to create secure communication among two computer, one using the browser and other fetching data from web server. HTTPS expect transferring of is done in an encrypted format. So we can say HTTPS thwart hackers from interpretation or modification of data throughout the transfer of packets. Encrypt messages.

SCTP: SCTP stands for Stream Control Transmission Protocol. It is a connection-oriented protocol on computer networks that provides a full-duplex association, i.e., transmitting multiple streams of data between two endpoints at the same time that have established a connection in the network. It is sometimes referred to as next-generation TCP or TCPng. SCTP makes it easier to support telephonic conversation on the Internet. A telephonic conversation requires the transmitting of the voice along with other data at the same time on both ends. The SCTP protocol makes it easier to establish a reliable connection.SCTP is also intended to make it easier to establish connections over the wireless networks and managing the transmission of multimedia data. SCTP is a standard protocol (RFC 2960) and is developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).

SMTP: Is designed to send and distribute outgoing E-Mail.

FTP: Allows users to send files from one machine to another. Types of files may include program files, multimedia files, text files and documents, etc.

UDP: UDP is an alternative to Transmission Control Protocol. UDP is connectionless protocol but TCP is connection-oriented protocol, which means UDP doesn't provide any guarantees that the data will be delivered or offer special features to retransmit lost or corrupted messages. It allows packets to be dropped and received in a different order than they were transmitted, making it suitable for real-time applications where latency might be a concern. It can be used where a large number of clients are connected and where real-time error correction isn't necessary, such as gaming, voice or video conferencing, and streaming media. Unlike TCP, UDP doesn't guarantee the packets will get to the right destinations. This means UDP doesn't connect to the receiving computer directly, which TCP does. For example, an application that is configured to manage the process of retransmitting lost packets and correctly arrange received packets might use UDP. This approach can help to improve the data transfer rate of large files compared to TCP. UDP is used by DNS, DHCP, TFTP, SNMP, RIP, and VoIP. UDP supports Broadcasting.

Usecases for UDP: 

Gaming, voice and video
Services that don't need fixed packet transmission
Multicasting and routing update protocols
Fast applications
Telnet: Telnet is a set of rules designed for connecting one system with another. The connection process here is termed as remote login. The connection will be local computer and remote computer.

Gopher: Gopher is a collection of rules implemented for searching, retrieving as well as displaying documents from isolated sites. Gopher also works on the client/server principle.

PPTP: 

Qestions
Explain the error control mechanismTCP protocol has methods for finding out corrupted segments, missing segments, out-of-order segments, and duplicated segments.

Error control in TCP is mainly done through the use of three simple techniques :

Checksum 
Acknowledgment 
Retransmissionision
Define each of these layers of protocol stack?
The Service Transport layer transfer messages between different applications, such as HTTP, SMTP, FTP, and Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP). The XML Messaging layer encodes messages in XML format so that messages can be understood at each end, such as XML-RPC and SOAP. The Service Description layer describes the user interface to a web service, such as WSDL. The Service Discovery layer centralizes services to a common registry and offer simple publish functionality, such as UDDI.

What is the significance of TCP acknowledgments?

TCP acknowledgments are used to acknowledge packets that are successfully received by the host. The flag is set if the acknowledgment number field contains a valid acknowledgment number.

What is Retransmission?

The TCP retransmission means resending the packets over the network that have been either lost or damaged. Here, retransmission is a mechanism used by protocols such as TCP to provide reliable communication. Here, reliable communication means that the protocol guarantees the packet’s delivery even if the data packet has been lost or damaged. The networks are unreliable and do not guarantee the delay or the retransmission of the lost or damaged packets. The network, which uses a combination of acknowledgment and retransmission of damaged or lost packets, offers reliability.

Write down features of TCP?

Connection-oriented: An application requests a “connection” to the destination and uses the connection to transfer data
Stream Data transfer: It is the duty of TCP to pack this byte stream into packets, known as TCP segments, which are passed to the IP layer for transmission to the destination device.
Reliable: It recovers data from the network layer if data is damaged, duplicated, or corrupted.
Point to Point: TCP connection provides end-to-end delivery.
Interoperability: It eliminates cross-platform boundaries.
Error and flow control: Error-checking, flow-control, and acknowledgment functions.
 Name resolution: It helps in solving human-readable names into IP addresses.
Routability: TCP/IP is a routable protocol,
It helps in resolving logical addresses.
Full Duplex: It provides connection in both directions.
Explain the process of TCP three-way handshaking protocol?

Process of TCP three-way handshaking protocol

Step one (SYN): In the first step, the client wants to establish a connection with the server, so it sends a segment with SYN(Synchronize Sequence Number) which informs the server that the client is likely to start communication and with what sequence number it starts segments.
Step two (SYN + ACK): Server responds to the client request with the SYN-ACK signal bits set. Acknowledgment (ACK) signifies the response of the segment it received and SYN signifies with what sequence number it is likely to start the segment.
Step three (ACK): In the final part, the client acknowledges the response of the server and they both establish a reliable connection with which they will start the actual data transfer.
Steps one, two establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for one direction and it is acknowledged. Steps two, three establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for the other direction and it is acknowledged. With these, full-duplex communication is established.

What are the TCP connections phases?

In TCP, connection-oriented transmission requires three phases: 

Connection establishment
Data Transfer
Connection termination
What is the maximum size of the TCP header? What is the minimum size of TCP header?

Maximum size of the TCP header = 60 bytes
Minimum size of the TCP header = 20 bytes
Write down the name of services provided by TCP?

Process to process communication
Stream orientation
Full duplex service
Multiplexing
Reliability
Write the name of all TCP “Flag”?

A TCP Flag field contains 6 different flags, namely:

URG: Urgent pointer is valid
ACK: Acknowledgement number is valid( used in case of cumulative acknowledgment)
PSH: Request for push
RST: Reset the connection
SYN: Synchronize sequence numbers
FIN: Terminate the connection
 What is the role of the TCP checksum field?

One of the important fields of TCP protocol format. It is 16 bits long. This field holds the checksum for error control. It is mandatory in TCP as opposed to UDP. 

Write the name of the Well-Known Port used by TCP?







Add alt text
No alt text provided for this image
Define the term Endpoint in TCP?

TcpEndpoint allows you to easily establish and communicate over TCP/IP network connections between client and server processes, possibly residing on different hosts. The TcpEndpoint class follows a telephone-like model of networking: clients “call” servers and servers “answer” clients. Once a network connection is established between a client and a server, the two can “talk” to each other by reading from and writing to the connection.

How HTTP protocol works?

What are HTTP Request and Response headers?

What is HTTP Caching?

